.\" $Id: hesiod_getpwnam.3,v 1.1 1996-12-08 21:38:24 ghudson Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1996 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"   distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH HESIOD 3 "30 November 1996"
.SH NAME
hesiod_getpwnam, hesiod_getpwuid, hesiod_free_passwd \- Hesiod functions for retrieving passwd information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <hesiod.h>
.PP
.B struct passwd *hesiod_getpwnam(void *\fIcontext\fP, const char *\fIname\fP)
.B struct passwd *hesiod_getpwuid(void *\fIcontext\fP, uid_t \fIuid\fP)
.B void hesiod_free_passwd(void *\fIcontext\fP, struct passwd *\fIpw\fP)
.PP
.B cc file.c \-lhesiod
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This family of functions allows you to retrieve passwd database
information using Hesiod.  To perform lookups, you need an initialized
Hesiod context; see hesiod(3) for details.  You may look up passwd
information by name or by uid; information is returned in the same
format as by
.I getpwnam
or
.IR getpwuid .
It is the caller's responsibility to call
.I hesiod_free_passwd
with the returned passwd entry to free the resources used by the
passwd entry.
.PP
Hesiod queries for passwd information are made using the ``passwd'' or
``uid'' Hesiod type, using either the username or the decimal
representation of the uid as the Hesiod name.  The corresponding
records should be a colon-separated list of fields giving the
username, encrypted password, uid, gid, GECOS information, home
directory, and shell of the user.
.SH RETURN VALUES
On failure,
.I hesiod_getpwnam
and
.I hesiod_getpwuid
return NULL and set the global variable
.I errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
These calls may fail for any of the reasons the routine
.I hesiod_resolve
may fail.
.SH SEE ALSO
hesiod(3)
