.\" $Id: hesiod_getservbyname.3,v 1.1 1996-12-08 21:38:45 ghudson Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1996 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"   distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH HESIOD 3 "30 November 1996"
.SH NAME
hesiod_getservbyname, hesiod_free_servent \- Hesiod functions for retrieving service information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <hesiod.h>
.PP
.B struct servent *hesiod_getservbyname(void *\fIcontext\fP,
.B 	const char *\fIname\fP, const char *\fIproto\fP)
.B void hesiod_free_servent(void *\fIcontext\fP, struct servent *\fIserv\fP)
.PP
.B cc file.c -lhesiod
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This family of functions allows you to retrieve service to port
mappings using Hesiod.  To perform lookups, you need an initialized
Hesiod context; see hesiod(3) for details.  Information is returned in
the same format as by
.IR getservbyname .
It is the caller's responsibility to call
.I hesiod_free_servent
with the returned service entry to free the resources used by the
service entry.
.PP
Hesiod queries for service information are made using the ``service''
Hesiod type, using the service name as the Hesiod name.  The
corresponding records should be space-separated lists of strings
giving the service name, protocol, port number (in decimal), and zero
or more aliases for the service.  There may be multiple records per
service name;
.I hesiod_getservbyname
will pick the first one whose protocol matches
.IR proto .
.SH RETURN VALUES
On failure,
.I hesiod_getservbyname
returns NULL and sets the global variable
.I errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.I hesiod_getservbyname
may fail for any of the reasons the routine
.I hesiod_resolve
may fail.
.SH SEE ALSO
hesiod(3)
