.\" $Id: hesiod.conf.5,v 1.3 2006-03-27 20:53:15 ghudson Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1996 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"   distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH HESIOD.CONF 5 "30 November 1996"
.SH NAME
hesiod.conf \- Configuration file for the Hesiod library
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file hesiod.conf determines the behavior of the Hesiod library.
Blank lines and lines beginning with a `#' character are ignored.  All
other lines should be of the form
.I variable
=
.IR value ,
where the value should be a single word.  Possible variables and
values are:
.IP lhs
Specifies the domain prefix used for Hesiod queries.  In almost all
cases, you should specify ``lhs=.ns''.  The default value if you do
not specify an lhs value is no domain prefix, which is not compatible
with most Hesiod domains.
.IP rhs
Specifies the default Hesiod domain; this value may be overridden by
the
.B HES_DOMAIN
environment variable.  You must specify an rhs line for the Hesiod
library to work properly.
.IP classes
Specifies which DNS classes Hesiod should do lookups in.  Possible
values are IN (the preferred class) and HS (the deprecated class,
still used by some sites).  You may specify both classes separated by
a comma to try one class first and then the other if no entry is
available in the first class.  The default value of the classes
variable is ``IN,HS''.
.SH SEE ALSO
hesiod(3)
.SH BUGS
There default value for ``lhs'' should probably be more reasonable.
