.\" $Id: hesiod_getmailhost.3,v 1.1 1996-12-08 21:38:11 ghudson Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1996 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"   distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH HESIOD 3 "30 November 1996"
.SH NAME
hesiod_getmailhost, hesiod_free_postoffice \- Hesiod functions for retrieving user to postoffice mappings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <hesiod.h>
.PP
.B struct hesiod_postoffice *hesiod_getmailhost(void *\fIcontext\fP,
.B 	const char *\fIuser\fP)
.B void hesiod_free_postoffice(void *\fIcontext\fP,
.B 	struct hesiod_postoffice *\fIpo\fP)
.PP
.B cc file.c -lhesiod
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This family of functions allows you to retrieve user to postoffice
mappings using Hesiod.  To perform lookups, you need an initialized
Hesiod context; see hesiod(3) for details.  Information is returned in
a
.I hesiod_postoffice
structure, which has the following fields:
.IP hesiod_po_type
The type of postoffice box, typically ``POP''.
.IP hesiod_po_host
The hostname where the postoffice box resides.
.IP hesiod_po_name
The account name on the given postoffice server.
.PP
It is the caller's responsibility to call
.I hesiod_free_postoffice
with the returned postoffice entry to free the resources used by the
postoffice entry.
.PP
Hesiod queries for postoffice information are made using the ``pobox''
Hesiod type, using the username as the Hesiod name.  The corresponding
entries should be space-separated lists of strings giving the type of
postoffice box, the hostname, and the account name.
.SH RETURN VALUES
On failure,
.I hesiod_getservbyname
returns NULL and sets the global variable
.I errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.I hesiod_getmailhost
may fail for any of the reasons the routine
.I hesiod_resolve
may fail.
.SH SEE ALSO
hesiod(3)
