.\" $Id: hesinfo.1,v 1.1 1998-09-03 01:12:49 ghudson Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1987, 1996 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
.\"   the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
.\"   distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
.\" (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\" SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
.\" STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
.\" OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH HESINFO 1 "27 October 1996"
.SH NAME
hesinfo \- find out what is stored in the Hesiod database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
hesinfo \fI[-bl]\fR \fIHesiodName\fR \fIHesiodNameType\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I hesinfo
takes two arguments, a name to be resolved and a string, known
as a HesiodNameType.  It then prints the information returned by
the Hesiod nameserver.
.PP
The value returned by
.B hesinfo
is of the type
.I HesiodNameType.
.PP
.I hesinfo
understands the following options:
.TP
.B -l
Selects long format.
.TP
.B -b
Prints the fully-qualified string passed to the nameserver.

.PP
.SS VALID Hesiod_Names
The following types of identifiers may be used in the
.I HesiodName
argument to
.B hesinfo.
These values will be resolved by accessing the
.B hesiod
database.

.TP
.B \<username>
the 8-character-or-less string used to identify users or classes
(e.g. joeuser, root, 1.00, etc).
Used with the
.I Hesiod_Name_Types
.BR passwd,
.BR pobox,
and
.BR filsys.


.TP
.B \<uid>
the id number assigned to a user.

.TP
.B \<groupid>
the id number assigned to a group.

.TP
.B \<groupname>
a name identifying a unique group.

.TP 
.B \<file-system-name>
the name of an athena file system.

.TP
.B \<rvd server>:<pack>
the name of an rvd's server and pack  seperated by a colon.

.TP
.B \<nfs server>:<partition>
the name of an nfs server and its partition seperated by a colon.

.TP
.B \<workstation-name>
the machine name of an Athena workstation (e.g. E40-343-3).

.TP 
.B \<service-name>
name of an Athena service (e.g. Zephyr).

.TP
.B \<service-type>
name of Unix service (valid entries are defined in /etc/services).

.TP
.B \<printer-name>
name of a printer.

.TP
.B \<printer-cluster-name>
name of an Athena print cluster.

.TP
.B \<foo>
some
.B hesinfo
calls (e.g. 
.B prclusterlist
) do not require a specific
.I HesiodName
argument.  However, you must include a dummy string (e.g. 'foo') for
.B hesinfo
 to work properly.




.PP
.SS VALID Hesiod_Name_Types
The following symbols are valid substitutions for the
.I HesiodNameType
argument to
.B hesinfo.

.TP
.B \ passwd
returns string suitable for inclusion in
.I /etc/passwd,
searching with
.B <username>.

.TP
.B \ pobox
returns information on the pobox assigned to the user specified by
.I HesiodName,
searching with
.B <username>.


.TP
.B \ uid   
returns string suitable for inclusion in
.I /etc/passwd,
searching with
.B <uid>.

.TP
.B \ gid   
returns string suitable for inclusion in
.I /etc/group,
searching with
.B <groupid>.

.TP
.B \ group
returns string suitable for inclusion in
.I /etc/group,
searching with
.B <groupname>.

.TP
.B \ grplist
returns subgroups included in superset
defined by 
.B <groupname>.

.TP
.B \ filsys
returns file system type, export point, server, mount mode, and import point
for the following valid
.I HesiodNames
(see above)
.B - <file system name>, <username>, <rvd server>:<pack>, 
.B and <nfs server>:<partition>

.TP
.B \ cluster
returns information about the local cluster the workstation, specified by
.B <workstation name>.
Included is information about the local file and print servers.  This
information is accesses by 
.B clusterinfo 
at boot time.

.TP
.B \ sloc
returns network name of service host for
.B <service-name>.

.TP
.B \ service
returns Internet protocol type and protocol service port for
.B <service-type>.

.TP
.B \ pcap
returns a valid entry for /etc/printcap for
.B <printer-name>.

.TP 
.B \ prcluserlist
returns a list of print clusters.

.TP 
.B \ prcluster
returns a list of printers in a cluster specified by
.B <printer-cluster-name>.

.SH FILES
/etc/athena/hesiod.conf
.SH "SEE ALSO"
`Hesiod - Project Athena Technical Plan -- Name Service', named(8), hesiod(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Steve Dyer, IBM/Project Athena
.br
Copyright 1987, 1988, 1996 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
